Now a question often asked about SDM an open flow is is this actually real.
Are there any implementations of software defined networking or open flow in the real world.
One of the earliest examples of SD and an open flow can be found at Google Google started deploying
open flow in their networks in 2010.
Now at the time of this recording that is over five years ago so SD in an open flow have been around
for quite a while.
I recommend that if you're interested in seeing examples of SD and an open flow have a look at the open
networking summit videos on YouTube as first example which I've explained is open flow at Google
and the video explains how Google had problems with their existing infrastructure and then deployed
their own switches running open flow and other protocols to scale in this presentation.
From 2012 Google's infrastructure is explained and us in this video explains how Google have got to
100 percent network utilization in their network He further explains why they used open flow in their
core network.
One of the reasons given is that networking costs do not go down as Google scaled their network.
This is in contrast to compute and storage when running a data center at scale.
Google expects massive savings compared to a small implementation.
This was happening to compute and storage but not to networking.
The cost of networking stayed linear or increased which was very different to servers and storage whether
per device cost went down as the implementation was scaled in networking it was hard for Google to save
money even when there were large implementations.
So by implementing open flow and SDM Google were able to manage many networking devices as a single
unit rather than lots of individual networking devices.
Now they are updates to the Google presentation here's one from 2015 which provides a lot more detail.
There's also a presentation from 2014.
I strongly recommend that you watch this video.
The 2015 keynote presentation about Google's implementation explains the reason why and the advantages
of implementing open flow in SD and in Google's network
Google have also released more detailed information where they pull back the curtain on Google's network
infrastructure.
So a lot of detail is provided on how Google have implemented their network and can manage multiple
devices using open flow and ISDN.
The history is provided of different Google implementations as well as detailed white paper information
explaining scaling network devices protocols used and so forth.
If you're interested in the details have a look at these documents otherwise simply watch this presentation
from the open networking summit.